In case you need convincing,
I'm going to give you a few reasons why monitoring is
not an optional piece of your Cloud development strategy.
Let's talk about availability.
Uptime or downtime often translates to dollars,
one way or the other.
Downtime will increase drastically without monitoring since
you're not going to be monitoring that system round the clock manually.
This downtime will negatively affect revenue or could increase legal costs.
How about performance?
Company performance and image often hangs on the reliability of its tech.
If systems degrade and users can't consume them,
then their confidence in the system will also degrade,
which might result in employee turnover or loss of clients.
Capacity is important too.
Company or product growth is generally a good thing,
especially if technology can rise to the demands of its users.
But when infrastructure is not ready to meet the needs of business on time,
it can result in loss of revenue or increased cost.
Let's not forget productivity.
Development teams who spend less time troubleshooting tend to spend more time developing.
However, without proper monitoring,
development teams have no choice but to dive into
time-consuming troubleshooting affecting feature
release plans and incurring opportunity costs.
In the world of monitoring,
there are reactive approaches and proactive approaches.
The reactive approach leads us to only consider monitoring data when there's an incident.
When we think of monitoring,
normally our thoughts go to debugging and troubleshooting,
sifting through logs and checking hardware metrics for issues.
It's important that we have enough information at
our disposal so that we can resolve those issues quicker.
The quicker our reaction time,
the higher the confidence will be in our team.
Some examples of monitoring data that help our reaction times might
be real-time CPU memory or disk space meters,
current health status of servers or resources,
application logs, and operating system logs.
These are tools that will help you uncover a mystery faster,
preserving your clients precious confidence.
But we're able to do much more than just react.
When we begin to regard the data generated by monitoring
systems as metrics and not just real-time data,
then some important doors open up.
You see, a metric is simply the result of any metric.
Metrics can be compared to one another and can reveal trajectory,
just like you can predict the drive time between
two cities once you have the average speed and the remaining distance,
you can also predict impending incidence based on your monitoring data, aka, the metrics.
Of course, there are a lot more metrics involved in
a complex information system than a car driving between cities.
That's where data science and machine learning comes in.
Both concepts are out of scope for this course,
but I'd like to at least expose you to a few of
the benefits to convince you further that proactive monitoring is a necessity.